# Programming Assignment: Programming Assignment 2: Algorithmic Warm-up

## Instruction

Welcome to your second programming assignment of the Algorithmic Toolbox class! It consists of seven algorithmic problems. The first three problems require you just to implement carefully the algorithms covered in the lectures. The remaining four problems will require you to first design an algorithm and then to implement it. For all the problems, we provide starter solutions in C++, Java, and Python3. These solutions implement straightforward naive algorithms that turn out to be slow. To verify this, you may want to submit these solutions to the grader. This will usually give you a “time limit exceeded” message for Python starter files and either “time limit exceeded” or “wrong answer” message for C++ and Java solutions (the reason for wrong answer being an integer overflow issue). Your goal is to replace a naive algorithm with an efficient one.

In this programming assignment, the grader will show you the input and output data if your solution fails on any of the tests. This is done to help you to get used to the algorithmic problems in general and get some experience debugging your programs while knowing exactly on which tests they fail. However, for all the following programming assignments, the grader will show the input data only in case your solution fails on one of the first few tests.

Recall that problem statements and starter files can be found in the first programming assignment.